The Joe Rogan experience. I know you wanted to talk about Huawei,
Huawei wa huawe, which I think is a really fascinating subject to me. Um,
and a lot of people that are tech inclined because they are at the
tip of the spear when it comes to technological innovation in the cell phone
space. Yeah. And I know that they're doing that with in,
in regards to modems and a bunch of other things as well,
but it appears at least,
and a lot of companies are exclusively using their 5g modems as 5g rolls out.
Oh yeah. Yeah. But it appears they,
they are involved in some serious shenanigans and they have deep roots with the
Chinese government.
They do, they claim they don't, they claim look we're independent.
We would never do whatever the Chinese authorities say.
Think about that sentence.
Think of about a company with the global reach of huaua
of that importance to the Chinese state. And think about them saying,
trying to say with a straight face, we wouldn't, we wouldn't do, you know,
things that the Chinese government might ask us to do.
What a lot of,
if you were a real Chinese company and you said that and you meant it,
they would shut you. Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
They'd be like, you won't you. Yeah.
You would not be in business for that long or there would be a change in the
senior management of the business. Right. Um, so anda always's been caught out,
they've been caught out in Europe, um, uh, to the,
to the degree where at a certain point you think Germany, uh,
and others that are, uh,
deeply involved with Huawei now in terms of the 5g infrastructure,
where they've just made this decision, look,
it's financially better for us to work with Huawei and we can set aside the
security risks. They're literally made that decision.
That is, yeah, that was,
I was reading an article about that very recently that they've just decided to
have some sort of a risk, uh, to reward conversation.
The, the risk is worth the reward.
Right, right. And so, you know, that's,
that's their calculation from a us perspective because we are, you know, look,
there's, there's two, essentially two superpowers now. Right. I mean, China's,
you know, um, advancing and, and, uh,
we're not the loan superpower on the stage anymore.
And so we are the number one target it. Um, and you know,
our calculation has to be different. So we've been going at it.
And I know everybody, I, I think it's been, it's been pretty well covered.
It didn't used to be covered very well,
but it's been pretty well covered over the past couple of months.
And now what's happening is we've been in these trade negotiations with China.
And I think, unfortunately I think the current administration,
the Trump administration is going to, uh, blink.
And I think they're because hu Hui is such a huge issue for the Chinese and the
idea that we would prevent, um,
our companies from selling into or purchasing from or dealing with,
and that we would have, uh, sanctions on other countries that, that do. Um,
they view that as a threat to their own, uh, interests and their own future,
um, that Huawei is front and center with any trade deal. So they're looking,
they're not doing any trade deal unless we make concessions on Huawei.
And I have a feeling that Trump administration is going to make those
concessions because from a political perspective, they want a trade.
Deal, right.
And so far they've actually said to Google that Google's gonna stop using the
Android operating system for, for the Chinese phones, for waawe's phones.
At least they're gonna not let them license out.
The so waawe' has actually been at least rumor to be in
production of the own operating system,
which would mean they would have to have their own, not just operating system,
but they'd, they'd have to have their own ecosystem.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so they'd have to have an app store.
They'd have to have all the, all the jazz that we have today. When you,
if you sign up for you, buy an Android phone,
you have access to the Google play market,
which is this huge resource of mm-hmm <affirmative> applications.
And as soon as you take that away,
you you've gotta kind of rebuild that whole thing from scratch. Right. Right.
Well.
Huawei doesn't lack anything in resources, you know, they'll be fine, you know,
because it's,
the state will provide and ensure that they have the resources they need.
They also, you know, we're the outlier here, right? I mean,
we've been working with New Zealand and the Canada and, and you know,
the UK to some degree, but the UK has been, you know,
kind of pushing back a little bit on this idea that we're gonna isolate Huawei.
I, I don't think that's gonna happen in, so.
They're using Huawei devices.
Um, they, they, to some degree, yes. Uh, they've been slower to adopt and, and,
and kind of mesh their infrastructure with huawe's for people gear.
For people don't know what we're talking about.
Could you please just lay out what's the concern?
What do they think that huawe he is doing?
Um, Huawei is essentially, um,
what's it dude, the way to put this would be, uh,
imagine a communications network that spans the globe and,
um, Huawei builds, uh, and provides, uh,
year and certainly going into 5g. Um, they're a leading provider and cert and,
and then financially they, they can offer countries, uh, much better, uh,
deals than, than other providers, but they are a,
an intricate part of that communications web.
So if you imagine that Walway is a stateoned
entity and will respond to Chinese, uh,
authorities requests for information or intelligence,
that's passing through this communications web around the globe, our,
uh, our business communications, our military communications, um,
intelligence communications that, that all kind of go through at some point,
this interconnected system. <affirmative>, uh,
that's the problem because they're essentially building back doors into that
system that allow them to suck, uh,
communications out of that network and use it for their own purposes.
It's a great intelligence tool, right. So if you think about it in a way,
basically, that's, it's a, uh, it it's a,
an advancement on the idea that you are wire tapping somebody, or, you know,
you've, you've created ability to intercept some communications, right.
They link themselves with the EU. Well, what happens?
We've got military communications, right. With the EU,
our military talks to the EU military, and, and,
and we've got NATO concerns and everything. So if,
if there's an element in that infrastructure that touches in and has a door that
opens to some huaway gear, right. Then the danger here is, and theyve,
they've had back doors discovered in the past and then Huwe puts their hands up
and go, oh, well, we didn't know that was there. Well, correct it.
And then it turns out they don't correct it. And then, you know, oh,
sorry about that. You know, they don't, they, they honestly don't give a. They,
I, when I say how aggressive they are in terms of sucking up information, I,
I can't, uh, overstate it. Right. And so this is,
that's why it's a problem for us is because, you know, if we, if we convince,
uh, Australia and, and, you know, the five eye as nations, New Zealand does and,
and, and others not to work with huwei and then say, Canada, you know,
which is willing to do a deal. Well,
we've got seamless communications infrastructure with Canada.
So all of a sudden the fact that they're doing business with Huwe,
but we're not, we're still at risk. We're still in jeopardy,
cuz that information is still flowing to some degree where it's accessible to,
to hu Huawei and their ability to, to, to get at. So I, you know, again,
I don't, and I know people listen to that and they go, uh,
why is that of any concern? Well,
it's a concern because it used to be in the old days, it was a, you know, um,
it was us in the Russians Soviet union.
Uh Russias you know, they got the GDP of a EU nation.
China is, is on March. They, they, they view themselves in a certain fashion.
That's why they're pushing out in the south China sea.
They've been building up their military. They've been doing deals all over the,
the world, uh, for rare earth minerals to, you know, to labor dose,
uh, access to Naval ports. It doesn't matter what it is.
They've been busy doing that because as they view themselves at the top of the
food chain, now, I guess we could say, well, okay, fine.
Maybe it's their turn or something, but I, that's not how I view the world.
Right. I mean, we can either be on top or we can, you know, be sucking, wind.
And, and so it goes back to that.
One of those early questions you asked is how much do we spend on defense?
How much do we spend on, on Intel? How much do we spend? And, uh,
and whatever it may be. And,
and I think the answer is that's where intelligence comes in.
You have to know what the op what the hostile nation is doing.
You have to know what the competitor is doing. It's like in business.
And then you have to spend enough to stay ahead of that, right.
Even if it's a small amount, you gotta stay ahead. You gotta, and, and it's,
and it behooves us not to fall behind. Um, that's never a good thing.
I know we don't always do things right. But as a nation, um,
the world is much better off with us, um,
sort of at,
and this is gonna sound wrong to a lot of people they're gonna think, oh my God,
that's terrible. But with us at the top, we're, we're more altruistic.
Uh, maybe that is, I don't know if that's the word or not,
but I think it's a good word. Yeah. So anyway, so I that's, that's my view.
A lot of people say, but, you know, Hey, everyone's got different experiences,
you know? Well.
Is there a way to detect, like when they release,
say if they release a Wawe phone mm-hmm <affirmative> and which is a really,
it's really interesting that just a few years ago,
waawe was not even a major player by any strategy imagination.
Now it's the number two cell phone provider in the world, uh, past apple,
which is incredible when you consider the fact that they barely have a foothold
in the American market. They very few people buy their phones.
And if they do buy their phones, they buy unlocked phones from overseas. Yeah.
It's really kind of crazy. Um,
but is there a way where they could detect whether or not there is a back door
in these phones? I mean,
or is it something where they could develop it to the point where you really
would have no idea?
Um, no, we can, we, we stay pretty well. Mm.
You know that you're you? Yeah. It's a good, it, it's a good question, but I, I,
I would say that, uh, as long as we continue what we're doing in terms of,
uh, counterintelligence and, and, uh, tech advances and efforts in,
in cyberspace and elsewhere, and certainly in communications hardware to stay,
uh, ahead of potential hostile activity, I think we're, we're okay. We, we, we,
we're good at detecting problems. We're good at identifying weaknesses in,
in these systems. Um, the problem is, again,
it's a global community. We can't isolate ourselves in terms of communications,
infrastructure just doesn't work. So if you know,
it's like a chain and a weak link <laugh> yeah. See,
I gave you that analogy. Yeah. That's pretty good. Yeah. Thank you. I,
I made that up. You are the weakest link.
You are exactly goodbye.
<Laugh> <laugh> so, yeah. It's I mean, anyway, but that's huawe and I,
and I do think that it, the interesting part will be, um,
what does the administration do in their desire to get a trade deal?
Are they willing to blink on this? Because they, they put their foot down.
Right. Right. And now,
because we're so dysfunctional here in the states from a political perspective,
now you've got people like Chuck Schumer going, well, you know,
Trump better not blink on this. This is important.
So suddenly Chuck Schumer is a Hawk on yeah. He's a hard, you know,
protecting us from, from, you know, Chinese espage right. And,
but simply because, you know, he sees as a political opening here, you know, if,
if Trump backtracks on huawe now, Hey, good. From the Democrat perspective,
they can use that to bang on him, you know? And so, right, right. It's all,
it all comes down to, to politics. But.
But this is something that people didn't even understand was an issue like
nationally,
this is something that no one was even aware of until a few months ago.
And when I started reading about it,
one of the first things that I was reading about was, you know,
kind of a technology nerd.
And so I was fascinated by some of their newest phones,
which were really far advanced to what you're getting offered in the United
States.
Yeah. And, um, a lot of that, uh, ability to,
to create in record time, um,
comes from theft theft department, intellectual property. Yeah.
And that's how they, over the years, again, that was a,
that was a collective decision by the authorities there that this is how we're
going to advance. Right. Mm-hmm <affirmative> we,
they looked and they make a calculation that says we can't afford to wait
decades while we do our own research and development, you know? Well, let's,
let's just take it.
And Huawei is not the only Chinese phone manufacturer. No, Mm-m,
there's quite a few different ones over there,
but they're the only one that seems to be banned.
What's that other one Zomi well, there's, there's quite a few. There.
Are, but Huawei has been because of their size, their,
and their connection to the government, um,
because of the resources that the government's been willing to, um,
to provide to them, the advantage that they have, um,
and the speed with which they were able to kind of embed themselves into other
nations, uh, telecommunications infrastructure. That's why they're so important.
Right. But the general yeah. The, uh, you know, are there other companies we,
well, of course, yeah. I mean,
there's a variety of companies we should be worried about from that perspective.
And it's not, look, they'd be fair. I, I,
I spent some time on China because it's just, you know,
they're the number one state, you know,
sponsored perpetrator of th theft of intellectual property, but, you know,
there's, there's other countries involved in it. So.
They can't be entire cities, which is really insane.
You seen that they have a fake Paris over there.
Yeah. Yeah. I know. Well, you know, they've got you go some of these places and,
and look, and Chinese history culture is, is fantastic. Right.
And I've been over there in times and I've just like marveled at how, how,
you know, how interesting the people are, how friendly they are, how, I mean,
they look, there's, there's a lot of wonderful things about China,
but I'm just saying the authorities, right? The government policy of, um,
no rule of law, of, of,
of the no protection when it comes to intellectual property,
all these things and their aggressiveness and stealing information,
that's the problem. Um, but China as a country is, is a fascinating place.